Great! In the last lectures, we learned something crucial, something we will use a lot in our demo app in
this course and probably in any app, how to pass data from a component down to another component which
was implemented there.
Now about the other direction, what if we have a component and something changes in there and we want
to inform our parent component, so the component which implements the other component?
For example here in app component, we're implementing app cockpit
and in this child component, in app cockpit, something can change because here we got two buttons and
when we click the buttons, we want to do something
and right now the code which would normally get executed was simply commented out.
So here, we want to inform our parent component, the app component
in this case, that a new server or a new blueprint was created.
So in our app component, we maybe still want to implement these two methods,
so let's simply add them here.
However I will adjust the names and say onServerAdded because these methods will kind of only be executed
after this button has been clicked, so not once the button is clicked but thereafter, once we really already
are done creating the server so to say. So onServerAdded and onBlueprintAdded sounds like more appropriate
names here in the app component.
Then however, we can comment out this code and still create a new server or a new blueprint,
however this will not work as expected here because we're referencing newServerName and newServerContent
which are not available in the app component.
but that is exactly information we kind of want to pass from the cockpit to the app component because the
app component is the central place in our app for now which manages this array of servers.
So how can we emit an event, our own event,
how can we inform our app component?
It would be great if it would look something like this, on the app cockpit,
so in the app.component.html file where we implement app cockpit,
it would be great if we could listen to serverCreated, any name you like but that would be a fitting
name for the kind of event we want to listen to.
Of course this event doesn't exist by default,
so just like we listen to click, now we want to listen to some event like this, serverCreated and once
a server was created, we execute some code,
so just like in any other built_in event like click here, on the right side of the equal side between the
quotation marks,
we want to call onServerAdded, the method we've prepared for this.
And we even expect to get some data with $event,
this is how you could catch this data, that could be some object which gives us the required information
about that server, like the name and the content.
So in onServerAdded now here, we would expect to get event data
or let's say we would actually expect to get the server data and that could be of type, let's say a Javascript
object which has a name field with a string
or let's be more explicit,
let's name it serverName which is of type string and serverContent which is of type string.
So that would be the type of object we expect to get in this method
and with that, we could use it here and use server data, serverName to assign it as a name for our
newly created server, the one we push onto our array here
and the same of course down here for the content,
so that is how it should work.
We get this data in onServerAdded and we call onServerAdded once our custom event occurs on the cockpit
component and this event even should give us this data we expect to get and we catch it with
$event. Now obviously we can also replicate these for the let's say
blueprintCreated event, here we would execute onBlueprintAdded
and of course you could also kind of merge these two methods,
I keep them separate to be really clear about what's happening here and there again,
we also expect to get our blueprint data in this case,
so blueprint data maybe and there, we also would receive the information we require like the serverName
and then of course also the content, this is how it should work.
Now in the cockpit component, we actually need to emit our own event.
We are waiting for events named serverCreated and blueprintCreated, maybe with a lowercase p.
So in the cockpit component, I kind of want to create two new properties here, properties, that's important,
serverCreated and blueprintCreated.
Now before, we placed @input in front of them to mark them as properties you can set from outside,
now we want to do the opposite,
we want to make sure that both properties kind of are events we can emit and to make them events,
we first of all have to assign a new value, new eventEmitter and eventEmitter needs to be imported
from @angular/core,
so you should add this import here at the top. eventEmitter is a generic type which is indicated in TypeScript
by using this smaller than and greater than sign and in-between, you simply define the type of event data you're
going to emit
and here,
well we know this would just be the data we expect in the app component,
so this will be an object with a serverName and serverContent,
so we can pass this in between the smaller and greater than signs. And important, add parentheses in the
end to call the constructor of eventEmitter and create a new eventEmitter object which is now stored
in serverCreated,
I'll do the same for blueprintCreated.
Now we get two event emitters and that's the first step, eventEmitter is an object in the Angular framework
which allows you to emit your own events.
What we can do with that is in onAddServer, we can now call serverCreated
and here we can call the emit method.
This will, well like the name implies, emit a new event of this type, so of the server created
here using this eventEmitter. Well and here, we simply want to create the object or pass the object
we kind of said we would pass here, an object where we have a server name which of course is our new
serverName so it would be whatever we save here and then a serverContent with the value of newServerContent
as a value
and I can split this over two lines to make it a bit easier to read.
So this is what we emit in onAddServer and let's do the same for onAddBlueprint, here however of course,
we use blueprintCreated, the second event
we set up there.
So with that, we're emitting our own events, pretty awesome,
we're passing the data,
one piece is missing though.
Remember, we added @input to make a property bindable from outside,
now we need to add something to serverCreated and blueprintCreated to make it kind of listenable
from outside,
that something is another decorator and it's not input because we're not getting something passed
into this component,
it's @output with parentheses because we're passing something out of the component, we're passing
our event out of the component
and the same for blueprintCreated.
Make sure to import output from
@angular/core. With this in place,
now if we save this and have a look at our application, if we create a new server, some test content and
we click add server,
you see it gets displayed down there, so it successfully emits this event.
Let's check the same for the blueprint, that looks pretty good too.
So with that, we get our app working again
but now split up into several components which can communicate with each other and that is a key building
block because component communication is so important.